.\"
.\" Copyright 2006, 2007
.\"	The President and Fellows of Harvard College.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE UNIVERSITY AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd June 4, 2007
.Dt OSAGE 5
.Os "PASS v2 (1.90)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm osage
.Nd old provenance query syntax
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
query language was formerly the primary vehicle for accessing the
provenance
databases of the Provenance Aware Storage Systems (PASS) project.
(The current method is via Path Query Language, or PQL.)
Because provenance is not relational, it is not a relational query
language like SQL and does not support joins. Instead, because
provenance is graph-oriented, it has particular support for tracing
paths through a graph. In other respects it is a simple
expression-oriented language with dynamic typing.
.Pp
The ideas behind the path expressions used in
.Nm
are generalized from the W3C's XPath and XQuery languages. Because
.Nm
provenance ancestry graphs are a different and more general
environment from XML,
.Nm
is different from XPath, and (we believe) cleaner and more powerful.
.Pp
The language syntax is currently in the middle of a major revision, so
this page is a stub. For now, please consult the example queries and
BNF grammar found in
the
.Nm
source.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Coming soon...
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sage 1 ,
.Xr osage 1 ,
.Xr wdb_dump 8
.Pp
.Pa http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/syrah/pass/
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
query language and syntax
was developed for PASS v2 in early 2007 by the PASS team:
Uri Braun, David A. Holland, Kiran-Kumar Muniswamy-Reddy, and Margo
Seltzer.
.Sh BUGS
This man page ought to contain useful information.
