.\"
.\" Copyright 2006, 2007
.\"	The President and Fellows of Harvard College.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE UNIVERSITY AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd March 17, 2010
.Dt WALDO 8
.Os "PASS v2 (20100317)"
.Sh NAME
.Nm waldo
.Nd kernel remote manipulation tool for lasagna provenance-aware file system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl u
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl p Ar dbpath
.Ar directory
.Nm
.Op Fl p Ar dbpath
.Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
processes logged provenance data on behalf of the lasagna
provenance-aware file system.
Provenance is written by the file system to
.Dq twig
files (twigs are lightweight logs) and then moved into a database
by
.Nm .
.Sh USAGE
In the first usage (online mode)
.Nm
is given a directory containing zero or more twig files.
This is normally the
.Pa .lasagna_stuff
directory of a lasagna volume.
In this mode
.Nm
runs as a daemon, first recovering the database to a consistent state
(in case the previous shutdown was unclean) and then processing
twig files.
It will first process files that already exist and then wait for more
to appear, until instructed to shut down.
.Pp
Note: while in the long run startup and shutdown of
.Nm
is intended to be handled automatically by the mount and unmount
process for lasagna volumes, as of this writing
.Nm
must be started and stopped manually.
.Pp
If the
.Fl b
option is given, a backup copy of each twig file processed is
retained.
Otherwise, processed files are removed.
.Pp
In the second usage (offline mode)
.Nm
is given a single twig file to process.
It will process this file, leaving it untouched, and then exit.
The
.Fl b
option is ignored.
.Pp
If called with
.Fl h
or
.Fl u
prints the help/usage information and exits.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To load
.Pa myworkload.twig
into a database:
.Pp
.Dl waldo -p ./myworkload.db ./myworkload.twig
.Pp
To mount a lasagna volume stored on
.Pa /dev/hda5
using the ext3 file system as the underlying storage:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
mount -text3 /dev/hda5 /mnt
cd /mnt/.lasagna_stuff
waldo .
cd /
mount -tlasagna /mnt /mnt
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sage 1 ,
.Xr twig 5 ,
.Xr twig_dump 8 ,
.Xr wdb_dump 8
.\" Xr mount.lasagna
.\" Xr umount.lasagna
.Pp
.Pa http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/syrah/pass/
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally developed for PASS v2 in early 2007 by Uri Braun with
the
assistance of the rest of the PASS team:
David A. Holland, Kiran-Kumar Muniswamy-Reddy, and Margo Seltzer.
Development is ongoing.
